Add doc on using BufferedStorageBackend to retrieve data exported by Galexie. (#1398)
stellar/stellar-docs: docs/data/ingest-library/BufferedStorageBackend.mdx

---
title: BufferedStorageBackend
sidebar_position: 0
---

# BufferedStorageBackend: Retrieving Ledger Metadata from the Data Lake

> The [BufferedStorageBackend](https://github.com/stellar/go/blob/bd7c1ad981593adf37b6bb6b91ef1d3f9afb1f00/ingest/ledgerbackend/buffered_storage_backend.go) is a component of the Stellar [ingest](https://github.com/stellar/go/tree/bd7c1ad981593adf37b6bb6b91ef1d3f9afb1f00/ingest) library that retrieves ledger metadata from a data lake generated by Stellar [Galexie](https://developers.stellar.org/docs/data/galexie). While Stellar Galexie currently supports only [GCS](https://developers.stellar.org/docs/data/galexie/admin_guide/configuring) as the data lake, the `BufferedStorageBackend` can work with any datastore that implements the [datastore interface](https://github.com/stellar/go/blob/master/support/datastore/datastore.go). The `BufferedStorageBackend` returns ledger metadata in [XDR](https://developers.stellar.org/docs/learn/encyclopedia/data-format/xdr) format.

Reviewer: noticed some of the links throughout are referring to commits, is that intentional, or can they point at `master` to avoid becoming stale?

Author: Good catch. Fixed.

> The [BufferedStorageBackend](https://github.com/stellar/go/blob/bd7c1ad981593adf37b6bb6b91ef1d3f9afb1f00/ingest/ledgerbackend/buffered_storage_backend.go) is a component of the Stellar [ingest](https://github.com/stellar/go/tree/bd7c1ad981593adf37b6bb6b91ef1d3f9afb1f00/ingest) library that retrieves ledger metadata from a data lake generated by Stellar [Galexie](https://developers.stellar.org/docs/data/galexie). While Stellar Galexie currently supports only [GCS](https://developers.stellar.org/docs/data/galexie/admin_guide/configuring) as the data lake, the `BufferedStorageBackend` can work with any datastore that implements the [datastore interface](https://github.com/stellar/go/blob/master/support/datastore/datastore.go). The `BufferedStorageBackend` returns ledger metadata in [XDR](https://developers.stellar.org/docs/learn/encyclopedia/data-format/xdr) format, which can be processed directly or analyzed using the xdrill library, an abstraction layer for accessing operations, transitions, and other ledger details.

Reviewer 2: I think we should only mention xdrill once we can link it to a specific location within the monorepo. Mentioning xdrill without a landing page for xdrill I think would be confusing for developers

Author: I didn't realize that we hadn't merged xdrill yet. I've removed it now.

## Key Features

- **Parallel Downloads**: Downloads multiple ledgers concurrently and buffers them in memory for fast access. This is particularly useful for fetching large historical ledger ranges.
- **Schema-Aware**: Reads multi-ledger files based on the datastore schema, extracting one ledger at a time.
- **Automatic Retries**: Handles request failures by retrying failed requests.
- **XDR Output**: Returns ledger metadata in XDR format, enabling easy integration with other packages in the ingest library (e.g., [processors](https://github.com/stellar/go/tree/bd7c1ad981593adf37b6bb6b91ef1d3f9afb1f00/ingest/processors)).

## Prerequisites

> - A data lake created by Stellar Galexie. For instructions on how to create a data lake, refer to the [Stellar Galexie administrator guide](https://developers.stellar.org/docs/data/galexie/admin_guide).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Access to a data lake populated by Galexie. For purposes of the example code, the data lake should be in the form of a GCS bucket. For instructions on how to create a data lake, refer to the [Stellar Galexie administrator guide](https://developers.stellar.org/docs/data/galexie/admin_guide). 
```
It seems worthwhile to state relation of 'data lake' to GCS bucket, otherwise reader may not be sure what it refers to.

    RetryWait  time.Duration `toml:"retry_wait"`   // Time to wait between retry attempts
}
```

#### Example Configuration

```go
// BufferedStorageBackend configuration instance
backendConfig := ledgerbackend.BufferedStorageBackendConfig{
    BufferSize: 100,             // Buffer upto 100 files in memory
    NumWorkers: 10,              // 10 parallel download workers
    RetryLimit: 3,               // Retry up to 3 times on failure
    RetryWait:  5 * time.Second, // Wait 5 seconds between retries

}
```

You can specify these values individually or use the [default configuration](https://github.com/stellar/go/blob/bd7c1ad981593adf37b6bb6b91ef1d3f9afb1f00/ingest/cdp/producer.go#L29-L46). The default settings automatically adjust the number of parallel download workers and buffer size based on the object size (ledger count per file). _These values are based on empirical testing, but the optimal configuration may vary depending on hardware and network conditions._

### Use Cases

BufferedStorageBackend can be used for batch processing a historical range of ledgers as well as for fetching new ledgers in real-time as they become available.

> 1. Here is a sample code that uses `BufferedStorageBackend` for batch processing of historical ledger range.

Reviewer: The numbered items(line 84 and 159) feel superfluous and could be probably be removed, the code example covers it.

Author: Not sure I understand, are you suggesting removing the numbering or the entire text on line 84 and 159?

Reviewer: just the numbering, lines 84 and 159.

		NumWorkers: 10,              // Concurrent download workers
		RetryLimit: 3,               // Maximum retry attempts on failure
		RetryWait:  5 * time.Second, // Wait time between retries
	}

	// Initialize the backend
	backend, err := ledgerbackend.NewBufferedStorageBackend(backendConfig, dataStore)
	if err != nil {
		log.Fatal(errors.Wrap(err, "failed to create buffered storage backend"))
	}
	defer backend.Close()

	// Define the ledger range to process
	ledgerRange := ledgerbackend.BoundedRange(1000, 2000)

	log.Printf("Starting ledger retrieval for range: %d - %d", ledgerRange.From(), ledgerRange.To())

	// Iterate through the ledger sequence
	for ledgerSeq := ledgerRange.From(); ledgerSeq <= ledgerRange.To(); ledgerSeq++ {
		ledgerCloseMeta, err := backend.GetLedger(ctx, ledgerSeq)
		if err != nil {
			log.Printf("Warning: Failed to retrieve ledger %d: %v", ledgerSeq, err)
			continue
		}

		log.Printf("Successfully retrieved ledger %d. Ledger sequence: %d", ledgerSeq, ledgerCloseMeta.LedgerSequence())

		// Add your logic to process the XDR data
		// Example: Parsing transactions, operations, etc.
	}

	log.Println("Ledger retrieval process completed successfully.")
}
```

> 2. For real-time streaming of new ledgers, refer to the [Ingestion Pipeline Code](https://developers.stellar.org/docs/build/apps/ingest-sdk/ingestion-pipeline-code).

Reviewer: should unbounded range be included in example code rather than referring to a different example? the reader may conclude BSB can't do real-time streaming.

Author: That's a good point but I think we can do it the next iteration, once the ingest library section's structure is more finalized. In the meantime, I've updated the text to explicitly state that the code samples uses BufferedStorageBackend for real-time streaming.
